# Introduction to Generative AI and Large Language Models

## 📚 Learning Objectives
 - Understand what Generative AI is
 - Learn what Semantic Kernel is and how it can be used
 - Implement a basic application that uses Semantic Kernel to generate text

## 📑 Task

### Open "Lab1" Project

Open the "Lab1" project located in the `dotnet/labs/lab1` folder of your course materials. This project contains the initial setup required for this task, including the necessary project configuration and dependencies.

### Add Required NuGet Packages:

You'll need to add NuGet packages for using Semantic Kernel and Azure OpenAI chat completion service. Add the following packages to your project:

```
dotnet add package Microsoft.SemanticKernel
dotnet add package Microsoft.SemanticKernel.Connectors.OpenAI
```
### Configure the Application:

You'll need to configure the application to use the Azure OpenAI chat completion service. You can do this by adding the following settings to the `appsettings.json` file:

```json
{
  "AzureOpenAISettings": {
    "OpenAIApiKey": "YOUR_API_KEY_RECEIVED_FROM_DIAL"
  }
}
``` 

### Initialize the Semantic Kernel using Kernel Builder:

Set up your Semantic Kernel to integrate Azure OpenAI Chat Completion for processing and responding to user inputs.

Check that everything is configured correctly by running the application and sending any prompt to the chat completion service.

```csharp
await kernel.InvokePromptAsync("Place your prompt here.")
```
  
### Implement more complex code:
Initialize OpenAIPromptExecutionSettings and fill it with settings from appsettings.json.   

Create an instance of KernelArguments class with OpenAIPromptExecutionSettings as the constructor parameter and add the next key-value as the argument body:
```csharp
{ "input", "I want to find top-10 books about world history" }
```
   
Create multiline prompt with the following text:
```csharp
string skPrompt = @"ChatBot: How can I help you?
User: {{$input}}

---------------------------------------------

Return data requested by user: ";

```

Create function from prompt and then invoke on the kernel pass prepared kernelArguments.  

Validate the result and print it to the console.  

### Closing

Create pull requests to the original repository and check that the pipeline has passed.  

Create a screenshot of the workflow showing the checks have passed and attach this screenshot to your tasks on learn.epam.com.  

### Free practice:
Modify the application to use the Semantic Kernel to generate a response to a user prompt. You can play with different prompts and see how the Semantic Kernel responds to them. Also you can try to use different settings for OpenAI chat completion service and see how it affects the generated responses.
